# Bus Transit Headway Bounds
This repository contains code to reproduce the results in the submission "Computing Headway Bounds under Worst-Case Bunching in Fixed-Line Transit Systems."

## I. Setup
You can either run the notebooks in this repository directly, or use Docker.

### A. Docker (Recommended)
If you haven't already done so, install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

First, build the image using the Dockerfile provided:
```bash
docker build --tag headway-analysis .
```

Next, launch a container and leave a port open for the Jupyter server:
```bash
docker run --rm -p 8888:8888 headway-analysis
```

After the container starts, Jupyter server should publish a URL in the terminal logs (e.g., http://127.0.0.1:8888/tree?token=blahblahblah).
Copy that into your browser's address bar.

### B. Native Python
First, clone this repository, and set it as your working directory:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:m-yuhas/bus-transit-headway-bounds.git
cd bus-transit-headway-bounds
```

(Optional) Create a new virtual environment using your favorite virtual environment mangager and install the requirements.
Example for venv:
```bash
python3 -m venv headway-analysis
source headway-analysis/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
kaleido_get_chrome # Required for Plotly to export images
```

Launch a Jupyter Server:
```bash
jupyter notebook
```

A browser tab should open in which you can run the iPython notebooks.

## II. Generating the Figures
The figures in the experiment section can be generated by running all the cells in ```experiments.ipynb```; there are no external dependencies.

To regenerate the case study, you will need the WeGo GTFS.
The GTFS (General Transit Feed Specification) specifies which stops are in a route, what times they are scheduled to be served, and how many buses serve them.
You can download the latest version [here](https://www.wegotransit.com/contact-us/data-request-submission/), although it is updated regularly, so your results may be slightly different then ours if any bus schedules have changed.
Feel free to try it with your local transit agency's GTFS.
After downloading the GTFS unzip it (it will be in a compressed format) and place the text files in the ```gtfs``` directory.

In addition to the GTFS you will need historical travel and dwell time data to generate the lower and upper bounds on travel and dwell time.
To request this data, please email the authors.
If you have historical data for your own local transit route, the insructions in ```data/preparation.md``` explain how properly format it.

Once the files in the ```gtfs``` and ```data``` directories have been prepared, you can run the cells in ```case_study.ipynb``` to generate the case study figures.

## III. Organization
* **analysis** - Python module with the utilities for analytical and probabilistic route analysis
* **data** - Historical travel and dwell time data for the case study
* **figures** - Outputs of the experiments and case study
* **gtfs** - GTFS for the case study
* **case_study.ipynb** - iPython notebook for the case study
* **experiments.ipynb** - iPython notebook for the theoretical experiments
